| | |
| - | - |
| **Full title** | Fluent Forever : How to Learn Any Language Fast and Never Forget It   |
| **Authors** | Wyner, Gabriel |
| **Publication Year** | |
| **Recommended By** | |
| **Status** | #book/status/unread |
| **Reading Dates** | November 17, 2021 - January 22, 2022 |
| **Initial Thoughts** | |

# Fluent Forever : How to Learn Any Language Fast and Never Forget It (9780385348102) by Wyner, Gabriel

* Notes from: November 17, 2021 - January 22, 2022

* [Bookmark -- loc 320]<br><br>* five principles of memory: • Make memories more memorable. • Maximize laziness. • Don’t review. Recall. • Wait, wait! Don’t tell me! • Rewrite the past. -- [loc 425]<br><br>> Framework of memory -- [loc 428]<br><br>* Qualsiasi dato diventa importante se è connesso a un altro. Any fact becomes important when it’s connected to another. —Umberto Eco, Foucault’s Pendulum -- [loc 433]<br><br>* To learn to remember, we must learn about the nature and location of memory. Scientists working in the 1940s and ’50s began their search for memory in the most obvious place: within the cells of our brains—our neurons. They cut out parts of rats’ brains, trying to make them forget a maze, and found that it didn’t matter what part of the brain they chose; the rats never forgot. In 1950, the researchers gave up, concluding that they had most definitely searched everywhere, and that memory must be somewhere else. -- [loc 436]<br><br>> Good for obsidian -- [loc 436]<br><br>> No memory centres but networks of memories -- [loc 440]<br><br>* These interconnected webs are intricately involved in our memories, which is why scientists could never find the mazes in their rats. Each rat’s maze was spread throughout its brain. Whenever the scientists cut out a piece, they damaged only a small portion of the involved connections. The more they removed, the longer it took the rats to remember, but they never forgot their mazes completely. The only way to remove the maze entirely was to remove the rat entirely. These patterns of connections form in an elegantly simple, mechanical process: neurons that fire together wire together. -- [loc 443]<br><br><br>* Structure: How many capital letters are in the word BEAR? • Sound: Does APPLE rhyme with Snapple? • Concept: Is TOOL another word for “instrument”? • Personal Connection: Do you like PIZZA? -- [loc 473]<br><br>> The four layers of word processing -- [loc 476]<br><br>* We’ll get better results if we skip the English word and use an image instead. -- [loc 549]<br><br>> Inverse of forign word shoud be french word -- [loc 549]<br><br>> Just a very funny qoute -- [loc 606]<br><br>* I’ve heard that hard work never killed anyone, but I say why take the chance? -- [loc 606]<br><br><br>> This chap invented the forgetting curve -- [loc 613]<br><br><br>> Repeating school based methods is futile -- [loc 625]<br><br>* One Metronome, Four Years, Six Million Repetitions Hermann Ebbinghaus’s 1885 study has been referred to as “the most brilliant single investigation in the history of experimental psychology.” He sat alone in a room with a ticking metronome, repeating lists of nonsense syllables more than six million times, pushing himself to the point of “exhaustion, headache and other symptoms” in order to measure the speed of memorization and the speed of forgetting. It was the first data-driven study of the human mind, and I suspect it made him a blast at social events. -- [loc 626]<br><br>> Now thats social science bitch -- [loc 632]<br><br>* In school we learn things then take the test, In everyday life we take the test then we learn things. —Admon Israel -- [loc 638]<br><br>> Thats quite good... Respect -- [loc 640]<br><br>* Try this one: after reading through your Spanish word list, you can: A. Get five more minutes with your word list. B. Get a blank sheet of paper and test yourself. C. Get three blank sheets of paper and test yourself three times. -- [loc 649]<br><br>> Raw read and memorise is much worse then read and unsighted recall -- [loc 651]<br><br>* Henry Molaison. In 1953, Molaison had his hippocampus surgically removed in an attempt to cure his epilepsy. His illness was cured, but the surgery left him with severe amnesia. He retained most of his old memories, but without his hippocampus, he lost his ability to store new ones. Molaison could recall his distant past because the map of those memories had spread throughout his brain. In losing his hippocampus, he lost the ability to make and access new maps and thereby lost his ability to form new memories. His story later became the inspiration for Memento, Christopher Nolan’s film about a man with anterograde amnesia in search of his wife’s killer. -- [loc 667]<br><br>> True story behind memento! -- [loc 672]<br><br>* Our blank page, however, changes everything. At the moment where your performance is judged, your brain realizes that it had better get its act in gear. As a result, every memory you recall gets a squirt of memory-boosting chemicals. Those memories are reactivated, your amygdala calls for hormones, your hippocampus maps out the involved networks, and your neurons wire tightly together. Every time you succeed at recalling, the reward centers in your brain release a chemical reward—dopamine—into your hippocampus, further encouraging long-term memory storage. Your blank sheet of paper has created a drug-fueled memory party in your brain. Your boring word list never stood a chance. -- [loc 684]<br><br>> Create a feedback reward loop or forever hold your peace avout not knowing shit -- [loc 689]<br><br>* If it’s hard to remember, it’ll be difficult to forget. —Arnold Schwarzenegger -- [loc 697]<br><br>> Quite stoic -- [loc 698]<br><br>* One of the reasons why language programs and classes fail is that no one can give you a language; you have to take it for yourself. You are rewiring your own brain. To succeed, you need to actively participate. Each -- [loc 886]<br><br>> Be more active in crative process... Generally speaking!! -- [loc 888]<br><br>* To paraphrase Rousseau, when we learn an accent, we are taking on the soul of that language. -- [loc 1542]<br><br>> I lile -- [loc 1543]<br><br>* ESSENTIAL TOOL!—Forvo.com (FREE RECORDINGS OF WORDS): First things first. Get acquainted with Forvo.com. Free, native-speaker recordings of more than 2 million words in three hundred languages. Once you start making flash cards, Forvo will become your best friend. If you’re using Anki, put recordings from Forvo into your flash cards. -- [loc 1571]<br><br>> Oooo use this -- [loc 1576]<br><br>* French Language Resources FULL LIST AND LINKS: Fluent-Forever.com/French Grammar Book: Mary Crocker, Schaum’s Outline of French Grammar Phrase Book: Michael Janes et al., Lonely Planet French Phrasebook Pronunciation Trainer: Gabriel Wyner, French Pronunciation Trainer Pronunciation Book: Christopher Kendris et al., Pronounce It Perfectly in French Frequency Dictionary: Lonsdale, Deryle, and Yvon Le Bras, A Frequency Dictionary of French Thematic Vocabulary Book: Wolfgang Fischer et al., Mastering French Vocabulary -- [loc 4691]<br><br>> French language resources -- [loc 4698]<br><br>
